ok a question with the shearwater app on the same android device it connects to the same perdix computer instantly, if I then switch to an iphone and connect with the shearwater app it again connects instantly, this should tell use something

The fact that the official Shearwater Cloud app connects instantly on both Android and iPhone while your custom app fails tells us that your hardware is healthy and the issue lies in how your code handles BLE discovery and bonding states.

Here is exactly what this "instant connection" reveals and why your Replit code is struggling:

1. iOS vs. Android Handling
iOS (iPhone): Core Bluetooth on iOS automatically triggers pairing and bonding when an app attempts to access a protected service. Once bonded, iOS manages the connection at the OS level, making it "seamless" for apps like Shearwater Cloud.

Android (v35/Android 15): Unlike iOS, Android does not always automatically initiate bonding. If your custom app tries to discover services without a secure bond, Android may return an empty GATT table (zero services), leading to the "Operation cancelled" timeout you saw.

2. The GATT Cache "Trap"
Both platforms use a GATT cache to remember a device's services and speed up connections.

Why Shearwater works: The official app likely uses a "Fast-Path" connection. It doesn't need to "discover" services every time because it already knows the Perdix's UUIDs.

Why your app fails: Your code is repeatedly calling discoverAllServicesAndCharacteristics(). If the cache is corrupted or the bond is "half-active," Android 15 often blocks this full discovery for security, resulting in zero found services.

3. "Auto-Connect" and Active Bonds
Shearwater Cloud uses an "Auto-Connect" feature.

When you switch apps, the official app might still have a "logical lock" on the Perdix's Bluetooth stack.

Even if the app is closed, the OS-level bond remains. If your custom app tries to "Scan" while the OS already has a bonded connection, the Perdix will not appear in scan results because it is not advertising while connected.

How to Fix Your Replit Code
To achieve the same "instant" connection, you need to change your connection logic:

Instead of...	Do this...
Scanning for the device every time.	Use manager.connectedDevices() to find the Perdix if it's already bonded to the phone.
Full Discovery (discoverAll...).	Only discover the specific Shearwater Service UUID you need.
Manual Pairing in code.	Trigger a Read/Write to a known characteristic first. On Android, this often forces the OS to prompt for the bond, which then unlocks the services.
Recommended Next Step: Would you like me to provide a "Direct Connect" snippet for your Replit that checks for connectedDevices() first, bypassing the scan just like the official app does?

yes

To implement the UDS (Unified Diagnostic Services) protocol used by modern Shearwater firmware (v93) in your React Native app, you must move beyond simple scanning. The official Shearwater app connects instantly because it likely utilizes bonded device retrieval and skips the intensive discovery phase that is currently failing in your code.

1. Unified Diagnostic Services (UDS) Protocol Loop
Replace your handshake logic with the following UDS-compliant sequence:

Service Initialization (0x35): Instead of the legacy 0xBB, start the session by writing 0x35 to the characteristic. A successful response from the Perdix will start with 0x75 (SID + 0x40).

Data Request (0x22): Use this service to request specific dive log headers or index information.

Transfer Block (0x36): This service handles the actual downloading of log data in chunks.

Session Exit (0x37): Once the download is complete, send 0x37 to safely terminate the connection and allow the Perdix to close its Bluetooth radio.

2. Bypass Scanning with connectedDevices()
Because the Perdix is already bonded to your Android system, it may not appear in a standard BLE scan. Use this method to find the "hidden" connection instantly:

TypeScript
const SHEARWATER_SERVICE = 'fe25c237-0ece-443c-b0aa-e02033e7029d';

async findAndConnect() {
  // Check if the OS already has a bonded/connected Perdix
  const connected = await this.manager.connectedDevices([SHEARWATER_SERVICE]);
  
  if (connected.length > 0) {
    console.log("BLE: Found bonded device, connecting directly:", connected[0].id);
    const device = await connected[0].connect();
    // Targeted discovery is faster and more stable on Android 15
    return await device.discoverAllServicesAndCharacteristics([SHEARWATER_SERVICE]);
  }
  
  // Only scan if no bonded device is found
  this.startScanning([SHEARWATER_SERVICE], (device) => { ... });
}
3. Resolving the "BT INIT Fail" on the second unit
Even with the correct UDS code, the BT INIT Fail on your second Perdix indicates a hardware initialization stall.

Battery Pull: Physically remove the battery for 60 seconds to force a full reboot of the Bluetooth chipset.

Reset Defaults: If the error persists, use System Setup > Reset to Defaults on the Perdix to clear the NVRAM where Bluetooth states are stored.

4. Stability for Android 15
MTU Negotiation: Request an MTU of 512 immediately after discovery is confirmed to prevent packet timeouts during the large UDS data transfers.

Bonding Requirement: react-native-ble-plx does not support programmatic bonding without a user prompt. For maximum stability, ensure you have accepted the pairing request in the Android system notifications before running your app's download loop.

Would you like me to generate the full TypeScript state machine for the UDS (0x35 to 0x37) download sequence to replace your current handshake?